docs/firmware/compile_vscode.md, before:

# Compile with Visual Studio Code

## Step by Step

1. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download){target=_blank} (vscode).
2. In vscode, install the [PlatformIO
   Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=platformio.platformio-ide){target=_blank}
3. Install GIT and enable GIT in vscode -
   [Download](https://git-scm.com/downloads/){target=_blank} -
   [Instructions](https://www.jcchouinard.com/install-git-in-vscode/){target=_blank}
4. Clone the [code repository](https://github.com/tbnobody/OpenDTU).
   You really have to clone it, do not download and extract a source ZIP file.
   During the build process the GIT hash gets embedded into the firmware. If you
   download and extract the source ZIP file a build error will occur.
5. In vscode, choose **File** --> **Open Folder** and select the previously
   downloaded source code (you have to select the folder which contains the
   `platformio.ini` and `platformio_override.ini` files).
6. Adjust the COM port in the file `platformio_override.ini` for your
   USB-to-serial-converter. It occurs twice:
    * `upload_port`
    * `monitor_port`
7. Select the arrow button in the blue bottom status bar (PlatformIO: Upload) to
   compile and upload the firmware. During the compilation, all required
   libraries are downloaded automatically.

## Troubleshooting

In Linux, if the upload fails with error messages "Could not open
/dev/ttyUSB0, the port doesn't exist", you can check via ```ls -la
/dev/tty*``` to which group your port belongs to, and then add your user this
group via ```sudo adduser <yourusername> dialout``` (if you are using
```arch-linux``` use: ```sudo gpasswd -a <yourusername> uucp```, this method
requires a logout/login of the affected user).

## Videos

There are two videos showing these steps:

    * [Git Clone and compilation](https://youtu.be/9cA_esv3zeA){target=_blank}
    * [Full installation and compilation](https://youtu.be/xs6TqHn7QWM){target=_blank}

Commit message:

update guide to compile with vscode
the steps are updated mainly to reflect the workflow with a current
version of vscode, which is slightly different. also, we need to tell
the user to select a PIO environment.

docs/firmware/compile_vscode.md, after:

# Compile with Visual Studio Code

## Step by Step

1. [Download](https://git-scm.com/downloads/){target=_blank} and install Git.
2. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download){target=_blank} (vscode).
3. In vscode, install the [PlatformIO
   Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=platformio.platformio-ide){target=_blank}.
4. ![Clone Source Code](../assets/images/firmware/vscode_clone.png){align=right}
   Clone the source code repository. Select the `Source Control` tab on the
   left, click `Clone Repository`, and enter the URL
   `https://github.com/tbnobody/OpenDTU`. You really have to clone
   the source code repository. Do not download and extract a source ZIP file.
   During the build process the Git hash is embedded into the firmware. If you
   merely download and extract the source ZIP file a build error will occur, as
   no Git status can be determined.
5. Adjust the upload and monitoring port to your system by clicking the plug
   icon in vscode's bottom statusbar and selecting the respective serial port.
   ![Set Serial Port](../assets/images/firmware/vscode_port.png)
6. Unless you want to compile the default firmware variant, select the
   appropriate PlatformIO environment in vscode's bottom statusbar.
   ![Select Environment](../assets/images/firmware/vscode_environment.png)
7. Click the arrow button in vscode's bottom status bar (PlatformIO: Upload) to
   compile and upload the firmware. During the compilation, all required
   libraries are downloaded automatically.

## Troubleshooting

In Linux, if the upload fails with error messages "Could not open
/dev/ttyUSB0, the port doesn't exist", you can check via ```ls -la
/dev/tty*``` to which group your port belongs to, and then add your user this
group via ```sudo adduser <yourusername> dialout``` (if you are using
```arch-linux``` use: ```sudo gpasswd -a <yourusername> uucp```, this method
requires a logout/login of the affected user).

## Videos

There are two videos showing these steps:

    * [Git Clone and compilation](https://youtu.be/9cA_esv3zeA){target=_blank}
    * [Full installation and compilation](https://youtu.be/xs6TqHn7QWM){target=_blank}
