docs/firmware/flash_esp.md, before:

# Flash ESP32

## Bootloader Mode

Before starting the flash process you may have to manually put the ESP into
*bootloader mode*. Most boards can be restarted into bootloader mode by the
flash utility automatically, but sometimes that is not working.

1. Press and hold the `BOOT` button on your board. This effectively connects
   the ESP32's `GPIO0` with `GND`. If your board has no `BOOT` button, connect
   `GPIO0` to `GND` using a wire.
2. Reset the ESP32 while holding the `BOOT` button.
    * Preferably, use your board's `RESET` (sometimes `RST`) button to perform
      the reset. Press it once.
    * Alternatively, perform a power-on reset: Disconnect the power supply and
      make sure that the board is not powered from any other source. Reconnect
      the power supply, possibly by plugging in the USB cable.
3. Release the `BOOT` button.

## Write to Flash Memory

The actual procedure to flash the ESP32 depends on the tool used. Click on the
tab below that matches your flash tool.

=== "Web Flasher :material-linux::material-apple::material-microsoft-windows:"

    [OpenDTU Web Flasher](webinstall.md)

    The easiest, platform independent method. Requires Chrome based browser.

=== "Espressif Web Flasher :material-linux::material-apple::material-microsoft-windows:"
    [Espressif Web Flasher](https://espressif.github.io/esptool-js/){target=_blank}
    Platform-independent method. Requires Chrome or Edge browser. Allows to
    install arbitrary firmware binaries. Flash factory binaries to address
    `0x0` and non-factory binaries to address `0x10000`.

=== "ESP Flash Tools :material-microsoft-windows:"
    Espressif provides their own [Flash Download Tools](https://www.espressif.com/en/support/download/other-tools){target=_blank} for Windows.

    ![Flash Downloda Tool](../assets/images/esp_flash_tools.png)

    Change `COM9` to the correct port on your computer.

    * On startup, select Chip Type --> **ESP32** and WorkMode -> **Develop**
    * Prepare all settings (see picture). Make sure to uncheck the **DoNotChgBin** option. Otherwise you may get errors like "invalid header".
    * **Only if you want or need to start from scratch (settings are lost):** Press "Erase" button on screen. Look into the terminal window, you should see dots appear. On some boards, the automatic bootloader selection does not work. In this case you have to manually press the "Boot" button on the ESP32 board. Wait for "FINISH" to see if flashing/erasing is done.
    * To program, press "Start" on screen, then the "Boot" button (if required).
    * When flashing is complete (FINISH appears) then press the Reset button on the ESP32 board (or powercycle ) to start the OpenDTU application.

=== "esptool.py :material-linux::material-apple::material-microsoft-windows:"
    Install [esptool](https://github.com/espressif/esptool) using `pip`:

    ```sh
    python3 -m venv /path/to/your/venv
    source /path/to/your/venv/bin/activate # on Linux
    /path/to/your/venv/bin/Activate.ps1 # on Windows
    pip install esptool
    esptool version # should show esptool version
    ```

    Use esptool to write a firmware binary to your ESP32:

    ```sh
    # erase flash only if you want or need to
    # start from scratch (settings are lost):
    esptool --port COM1 erase_flash

    esptool --baud 921600 --port COM1 --chip esp32 \
        --before default_reset --after hard_reset \
        write_flash --flash_mode dout \
        --flash_freq 40m --flash_size detect \
        0x0 opendtu-generic*.factory.bin
    ```

    * Adjust the `--chip` parameter to the actual chip in use, e.g., `esp32-s3`.
    * Change `COM1` to the correct port on your computer.
    * In case you get an error at the end of the flash procedure, you can try again using a lower baudrate eg. 460800.

=== "ESP_Flasher :material-microsoft-windows:"

    Users report that [ESP_Flasher](https://github.com/Jason2866/ESP_Flasher/releases/){target=_blank} is suitable for flashing OpenDTU on Windows.

Commit message:

native USB port should be preferred

docs/firmware/flash_esp.md, after:

# Flash ESP32

## Multiple USB-Ports

You board may be equipped with multiple USB ports. This is mostly the case for
ESP32-S3 boards. One of the port connects to a USB-UART bridge on the board,
while the other connects to the ESP32 natively using USB. The former port may
be labeled "UART" or "COM" and the latter port may be labeled "USB". On some
boards the labels are on the backside of the PCB.

If you are still unsure which port is which, connect one after the other to
your PC and observe whether one of it lists as "CP2102", "CH340", "CH341",
"CH342", "CH343" or "CH9102". All of those are USB-UART bridges. The USB native
port will list as "(Espressif) USB JTAG/serial debug unit" or similar.

!!!note "Native Connection"
    Prefer connecting the board using the native USB connection to your PC. It
    is often faster to program using the native port and it should work
    reliably to restart the ESP32 into bootloader mode.

## Bootloader Mode

Before starting the flash process you may have to manually put the ESP into
*bootloader mode*. Most boards can be restarted into bootloader mode by the
flash utility automatically, but sometimes that is not working.

1. Press and hold the `BOOT` button on your board. This effectively connects
   the ESP32's `GPIO0` with `GND`. If your board has no `BOOT` button, connect
   `GPIO0` to `GND` using a wire.
2. Reset the ESP32 while holding the `BOOT` button.
    * Preferably, use your board's `RESET` (sometimes `RST`) button to perform
      the reset. Press it once.
    * Alternatively, perform a power-on reset: Disconnect the power supply and
      make sure that the board is not powered from any other source. Reconnect
      the power supply, possibly by plugging in the USB cable.
3. Release the `BOOT` button.

## Write to Flash Memory

The actual procedure to flash the ESP32 depends on the tool used. Click on the
tab below that matches your flash tool.

=== "Web Flasher :material-linux::material-apple::material-microsoft-windows:"

    [OpenDTU Web Flasher](webinstall.md)

    The easiest, platform independent method. Requires Chrome based browser.

=== "Espressif Web Flasher :material-linux::material-apple::material-microsoft-windows:"
    [Espressif Web Flasher](https://espressif.github.io/esptool-js/){target=_blank}
    Platform-independent method. Requires Chrome or Edge browser. Allows to
    install arbitrary firmware binaries. Flash factory binaries to address
    `0x0` and non-factory binaries to address `0x10000`.

=== "ESP Flash Tools :material-microsoft-windows:"
    Espressif provides their own [Flash Download Tools](https://www.espressif.com/en/support/download/other-tools){target=_blank} for Windows.

    ![Flash Downloda Tool](../assets/images/esp_flash_tools.png)

    Change `COM9` to the correct port on your computer.

    * On startup, select Chip Type --> **ESP32** and WorkMode -> **Develop**
    * Prepare all settings (see picture). Make sure to uncheck the **DoNotChgBin** option. Otherwise you may get errors like "invalid header".
    * **Only if you want or need to start from scratch (settings are lost):** Press "Erase" button on screen. Look into the terminal window, you should see dots appear. On some boards, the automatic bootloader selection does not work. In this case you have to manually press the "Boot" button on the ESP32 board. Wait for "FINISH" to see if flashing/erasing is done.
    * To program, press "Start" on screen, then the "Boot" button (if required).
    * When flashing is complete (FINISH appears) then press the Reset button on the ESP32 board (or powercycle ) to start the OpenDTU application.

=== "esptool.py :material-linux::material-apple::material-microsoft-windows:"
    Install [esptool](https://github.com/espressif/esptool) using `pip`:

    ```sh
    python3 -m venv /path/to/your/venv
    source /path/to/your/venv/bin/activate # on Linux
    /path/to/your/venv/bin/Activate.ps1 # on Windows
    pip install esptool
    esptool version # should show esptool version
    ```

    Use esptool to write a firmware binary to your ESP32:

    ```sh
    # erase flash only if you want or need to
    # start from scratch (settings are lost):
    esptool --port COM1 erase_flash

    esptool --baud 921600 --port COM1 --chip esp32 \
        --before default_reset --after hard_reset \
        write_flash --flash_mode dout \
        --flash_freq 40m --flash_size detect \
        0x0 opendtu-generic*.factory.bin
    ```

    * Adjust the `--chip` parameter to the actual chip in use, e.g., `esp32-s3`.
    * Change `COM1` to the correct port on your computer.
    * In case you get an error at the end of the flash procedure, you can try again using a lower baudrate eg. 460800.

=== "ESP_Flasher :material-microsoft-windows:"

    Users report that [ESP_Flasher](https://github.com/Jason2866/ESP_Flasher/releases/){target=_blank} is suitable for flashing OpenDTU on Windows.
